Title
==

Anatomy of a Great Pull Request

Abstract
==

Getting a pull request merged into open source is hard. In this talk, we'll look
at what it takes to get a pull request merged into a project like Ruby on Rails.
We'll look at common mistakes that beginners make, and how you can avoid
them.

Rails has over 400 open pull requests today. Learn how keep yours from getting
lost in the noise, and better contribute to any open source project.

Details
==

This talk will be mostly example driven. We'll be looking in depth at several
PRs to Rails, at all ends of the spectrum. We'll look at a slam dunk, PRs that
required a lot of work, a PR that was a worthy feature but ended up not being
mergeable, and the kinds of PRs that maintainers wish they'd stop receiving.

We'll also be looking at the point of view that is often forgotten by new
contributors, the maintainers. At the time of writing this, Rails has 404 open
issues, and 448 open PRs. If you watch rails/rails on Github, you can expect up
to 100 notifications per day.

We'll explain why getting a PR merged isn't about the code or your feature, it's
about convincing the maintainers *why* it's needed, and how to go about doing
that. We'll talk about the common mistakes that are made that simply annoy
maintainers enough to unsubscribe. We'll talk about why your commit message is
important, the need for context, and why you should assume that the person
reviewing knows nothing about what you're trying to do. Finally, we'll talk
briefly about the structure of Rails contributions, and how to climb the ladder.

This talk is targeted at people who do not currently contribute to open source,
or have contributed in the past and are looking to improve their success rate.
The audience will leave this talk with a better understanding of what goes into
keeping a project like Rails going, and a better shot at getting their pull
requests merged in the future.

Pitch
==

One of the most common questions I get from new developers is "How can I start
contributing to Rails?". As a Rails committer who is heavily involved in the day
to day of keeping Rails running, I review dozens of pull requests and issues on
a daily basis. If you submit a PR to Rails today, there is a huge chance that I
will be the one who either merges or rejects it. As such, I can bring a very
practical perspective into just what it takes to get a pull request into Rails,
which is knowledge that can apply to contributing to any other library.
