Title
==

Windows Support -- It's More Important Than You Think

Abstract
==

Rails on Windows is an awful experience. We all know this, but it's more
important than we like to talk about. A person who isn't already a developer is
more likely to have a Windows laptop than anything else (if they have a laptop
at all). For programs like RailsBridge, good Windows support is critical for
helping new developers get started.

In this talk we'll look at what makes supporting Windows hard, what Rails is
doing to fix it, and what you can do to fix it in your gems.

Details
==

This talk is primarily a call to action for an issue that is far too often swept
under the rug. We'll start by showing what the process looks like to get Rails
up and running on a Windows machine in 4.2. This is meant to be *painful*, and
demonstrate just how bad it is. This portion will be from the point of view of a
brand new developer.

We'll look at what the differences between Windows and other platforms are, and
how it affects code. We'll then look at some of the problems in Rails that are
affected by these difference, both those that have been resolved and those that
aren't. We'll also cover testing/CI options that help ensure Windows continues
to work.

The intended takeaway from this talk is primarily a call to action on multiple
fronts. At minimum, the goal is to raise awareness about what is an important
issue, and get more people to talk about/ask for Windows support in libraries
other than Rails. At best, members of the audience will feel compelled to help
improve the Windows story on Rails, and add Windows support/CI to projects that
they maintain or use

Pitch
==

I've recently personally taken responsibility for making Rails on Windows be as
great of an experience as it is on Mac and Linux. This is a diversity issue
above all else that needs more attention and manpower. We cannot restrict our
industry to those who can afford a $3000 computer or are tech savvy enough to
dual boot linux
